Die Beautiful is a movie that revolves around the life of a transwoman, Trisha Echevarria. It 
revolves around her life, experience, her struggles and battles, living as a transwoman until her final day. 
First and foremost, I love the concept and execution of the movie. The way every transition of Trisha’s new 
make-up and look-a-like on her wake, like symbolizes every important and memorable time of her life that 
shapes her as she is. It unfold new perspective on me. And while watching the movie, I have realize new 
things about the life behind transwomen, LGBTQIA+ pageants, and what might every member of their 
community usually experience or go through in their every day life or their chosen path. It also tackled 
several things that caught my attention and I think is really important for everyone to take note on. 

First, it already showed us what kind of life was she living before she got where she is. She has a 
homophobic parent (which was her father). And due to that, and her father’s prejudice against her being 
gay, she suffers a form of domestic violence, verbal abuse. She was constantly berated, insulted, and 
cursed at by her father just because she decided to embraced her true self and her gender, and sometimes 
it even gets physical where he would slap her and throw things at her. Her sister, beth on the other hand, 
might not participated on the act, but the fact that she was a bystander and was not doing anything to 
prevent it somehow makes her an accomplice for me. And it’s really frustrating, because while I 
understand her part, I wish she stood up for her at least. I was glad she at least honoured her sister’s dying 
wish in the end, although I believed that they really don’t have the right with her anymore given how they 
treated Trisha. And even in the end they couldn’t even give it to her, and still wanted her to be back to her 
old self. Her father was really too thick-faced. 

Next, I was really shocked when it happened, and I was disturbed how it was overlooked by the 
characters. It was when Trisha was assaulted. When she said, “They didn’t forced me, I didn’t even object, 
I felt so helpless,” I really felt sad and angry for her especially what happened afterward. I firmly believed 
that if you felt assaulted or harassed, then you are. It was you in that situation and it is what you felt, so 
you are entitled for it. I was really speechless and confused how the other characters took it, her friends, 
especially barbs who she told what fully happened, it felt like they took it too lightly, downplaying what 
she went through. Laughing with her, teasing her, though I understand that it might be how she’s coping 
with it. Including how her family sort of victim blamed her. They didn’t even bother asking what happened, 
if she was okay, it was already concluded that Trisha did it to herself for them. And I felt like it’s the reason 
why its so overlooked, because she felt like no one would believe that she felt assaulted, because she also 
consented for it (to migs), and also because of her being gay. I can’t help but think of other gay people 
who experience the same thing, and is forced to kept it to themselves how they truly felt in that situation, 
because in the eyes of other people it’s still their fault and they “asked for it”.  

Another one is, how little she thinks of herself worth. I think it wasn’t just rooted on the 
stereotypes, her experience (which was a huge factor), but also because her biological family didn’t accept 
her. I believe it was one of the factor as well. So when her daughter told her that, “You don’t really love 
him, you only liked him because you thought no one’s going to love you.”. This statement made me realize 
how true is it for trisha, because she agreed and settled to be a mistress for Jesse. Only to be heartbroken 
again, and even worst, opened her wound of the past (the assault). Its just sad how she went from hating 
a mistress to eventually become one because she can’t believe someone would love her truly. It’s sad how 
the majority of the community might feel this way because they think no one would accept and love them 
as they are. 

I also love the found family trope, but it felt lacking. I wish they explored it more. I didn’t like how 
their mother-daughter relationship ended just like that. Trisha might not be the perfect mother, but she 
was a good mother at least. She might have her shortcomings, projecting on her daughter Shirley Mae, 
forcing her pageantry even when she didn’t want to. But to end it just like that, I felt bad for the both of 
them. It felt so fast, but I think that’s just really how life is, unpredictable.  

The loyalty and bond, the sisterhood between Trisha and her friends, especially Barbs, was really 
commendable. They weren’t just bestfriends, they were sisters. The way she fought for Trisha’s rights and 
wishes. The way she honored her wishes and did it even when she was mourning too. That even when 
Trisha wasn’t able to, she was the one who did it for her. Continuing her legacy, and letting Trisha be 
remembered as who she is as a person, beautiful and remarkable. 

The actors really did great on portraying their characters, especially Paolo Ballesteros. Paolo really 
emobodied Trisha’s character, it felt just so natural like it’s made for her. With those heavy scenes, my 
admiration for Paolo just grew. And choosing her is just the right decision for this role, with the fact that 
she’s also part of the community. And Christian bables as well, who played the role “Barbs”. I’ve never 
seen him in this kind of role, and I was really impress by his acting here. He really portrayed his character 
well.  

The comedic theme and the way they spoke and how casual their words are also helped to at least 
llighten the feels of the movie, despite it having heavy themes (death, abuse, etc.).  This movie has such a 
good representation of the LGBTQIA+ community, especially transwomen. By of course, the main character 
Trisha, how she found herself, fight for herself and embraced her identity. That although there is doubt 
sometimes, she still chose to be what she wanted and love to be. It also explored the relationship (with 
family, friends, significant others, etc.), loyalty, and bond. The sisterhood of transwomen. Their beautiful 
culture, which one of it was the gay beauty pageantry. It also tells us that, it is not always be about 
acceptance. You can’t really force people to change ways. Our society has it own norms, and established 
standard for each of us. And you don’t need to force yourself to be accepted and fit in, what’s important 
it that you were able to stand-up for yourself, express and let yourself be seen by everyone, how beautiful 
you are and confident to be what you are, and you will be untouchable.  