Die beautiful was a such a heavy heart to watch. At first, I thought Die Beautiful would be just another boring movie, Because there is this first scene that actually confused me but as when I got into it, I understand clearly now what is the movie wants to state to the viewers, that every thing has a purpose and the happiness of a person doesn’t need to change on what other people just wants to see, I appreciate many of the trans especially those gay beauty queens because of this movie. I know that being a gay in this generation is not so new but this kind of belief in the other families is still exist as if the gender is the only reason that can ruin their reputation, Mostly the father’s is the against. That’s why I know that those who doesn’t come out yet have their own reasons, it is really hard for them to come out because they know the casualties of their actions, That’s why I am so proud of how this plot turns out, Trisha doesn’t give up her own happiness just because of her father doesn’t approved  her new identity.

She had the rights to be her own, She have the rights to be freely to choose where the path she would take. I admire this one scene on how her friend balanced her limits when she said that if she die ,she wants it to be back in normal from what god made it to be. This story really surprises me ,from the beginning of the story the scene where Trisha adopts Shirly  as her own daughter I know that many of those who doesn’t understand  will question the decision of Trisha but I know that she know how important the parents presence on their child. Loved how it shows how kind and generous Trisha is. This important moment really emphasizes Trisha’s ability to be love and accept, making her even more relatable and lovable. That even though she’s not a real  woman but she’s act like it better than any parents that can’t handle over their own responsibilities. 

I noticed that from the very beginning some of her past was connected to the present scene where she remembers that some guys takes advantage of her being a gay and did something terrible that was really shocked for me, It literally makes me vomit when those scenes just showed. I felt really bad, I know for sure not just in the movies but also in real life something really happened like that raping other men to fulfill their lust. There’s a hint of trauma in Trisha yet her father still sees her as a some kind of disgusting insect even though she’s not real problem. Some would say why not calling the authority, because they will just gave some malice for that and question them like its her fault to be targeted by those rapist and who will believe her if they seek for justice. By sexually abused of those lustful person they don’t care what identity you have. 

The scene were Trisha tried to search the loved that she wants, always comes out to be used only. Many people can relate to this scene like being used only for the other person’s interest. Till Trisha met the guy that she taught she can actually be happy to be with until she know the real motive of the guy and that is to fulfill not his lust but his conscience that hunting him that makes me more even felt a heavy heart as soon as the movie ends.

The movie gaves me a peak of understanding for those different kinds of people it helps me to beacme more understandable for every situation, that not everyone has the same experience can understand what u have been through. They have their own life to fulfill some of it a identity that can’t actually can steal by anyone. This movie shows me what casualties of your actions, overall this movie have great insight challenging yet entertaining. And as for the main actor it really suits for Paulo Ballesteros his acting skills are like a natural when he delivers the scenes from the beginning to the end it’s not a boring it’s a great movie actually, I underestimate it at first yet I admire it now.